Lung Cancer Dataset is obtained from kaggle source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mysarahmadbhat/lung-cancer


	Lung Cancer....

A desease in wich many factors have influence to develop it, or maybe not as is generally thought ?...so, reading the data :)


 -How can Lung Cancer data can be used?
  1. To know which habits make people more likely to get this dessease
  2. Highlight the attributes most closely related to getting cancer... why? more careful...more research...keep an eye 
  3. Predict who can get cancer... why?.. in how long from know?



	Looking atributes closely 
 
 -Anxiety
  Acording with the Mental Health Information, genetic and environmental factors contribute to the risk of developing an anxiety disorder.
 -Peer-presure 
  The process by which members of the same social group influence other members to do things that they may be resistant to, or might not otherwise choose to do (Elizabeth Hartney, 2022).
 -Chronic disease
  Are defined broadly as conditions that last 1 year or more and require ongoing medical attention or limit activities of daily living or both (NCCDPHP, 2O22).
 -Wheezing
  Is a high-pitched whistling sound made while breathing. It's often associated with difficulty breathing (Mayo Clinic ). 
 -Swallowing Difficulties
  Dysphagia is the medical term for swallowing difficulties. Some people with dysphagia have problems swallowing certain foods or liquids, while others can't swallow at all.



Data Classification

Gender: categoric nominal 
Age: Numeric discret
Smoking: categoric 
Yellow fingers: categoric
Anxiety: categoric
Peer_pressure: categoric
Chronic disease: categoric
Fatigue: categoric
Allergy: categoric
Wheezing: categoric



	Acording to the data classification and the question to answer... This are recomended analysis..
 

 1. Chi-squared: Compare two categorical variables that migh have hoch influence in the lung cancer positive 
 2. Fisher's Exact test: Whithout clear assumptions between chi-squared 
 3. One-way ANOVA: Comparision of variable with many categorical variables 
 4. Multinomial logistic regression: multiple categorical data prediction 



Chi-squared 


